DBMS :

1) what is dbms 
DBMS is a program that controls maintain and use of a database .
Dbms can be termed as file manager that manage data in database rether than saving it in files .

2) What is RDBMS 
RDBMS stands for relational database management system . RDBMS store the data into the
collection of tables which is related by common field between the column of the table . 
It also provide relational operators to manipulate the data stored into the tables .
Ex. SQL server

3)SQL structure query language : 
It's  used to communicate with the Database . This is a standard 
language used to perform tasks such as update , insert , deletion of data from a database .
standard SQL command is select .
sql is dml & ddl .

4) What is a database : 
Nothing but organise form of data for easy access , storing , retrieval , managing of data .
Ex . school management database , bank management database 

5) Tables & Fields : 

A table is set of data that are organised in a model with columns & Rows .
Colums can be organised As vertical & Rows are horizontal . A table has specified number of columns called as fields but 
have any number of rows which is called records .
Ex .
Emp have Emp id Emp name name dob 
data 201456

6) What is a primary key : 

A primary key is a combination of fields which uniquely identifie a row .
This is special kind of unique key , and it has implicit NOT NULL constraint . it means priary key values cannot be null .

7) Unique key : 

A unique key constraint uniquely identifies each record in database & provides uniqueness for the column or set of columns . A table may have more than one unique 
keys .



8) foreign keys : 

A foreign key in one table which can be related to the primary key of another table .
Relationship needs to be created between two tables by refrencing foreign key with primary key of another table .
You can not delete foreign key because it refrence to another table as primary key .
   
9) Joins : This is a keyword used to query data from more tables based on the relationship between the fields of the tables .
 keys play a major role when joins are used .

10) types of join : 


Inner join : Return when there is atleast one match of rows between the tables .

right join : Right join return rows whioch are common between the tables & all 
rows of right hand side . simply it return all rows from the right hand side table even though they are no matches in the left hand side table .

Same as left join but return all rows of left tables .

Full join :  return all the rows of left hand side table & all the rows of the right hand side table .

11) Normalization : 

normalization is the process of minimising redundancy and dependency  
by organising  fields and tables of a database . The main aim of normalisation is to add , delete or modify field that can be 
made in a single table .

12) what are all the different normalizations ? 

1NF : 
This houls remove all the duplicate columns from the table . 
2NF : 
Meeting all the reqirements of the first normal form . placing all the subsets in separate tables and creatins of relaytionship of tables using primary keys .
3NF : 
Meet all the requirement of 2nf . remivung the column which are not dependent on primary keys .
4NF : 
meet all the req. of 3nf . should not hav emultivalued .

13) VIEW 

A view is a virtual table which consists of a subset of data contained in a table .
Views are not virtually present and it takes less space to store . view can have data of one or more tables combined and it is depending on the relationship .

14) index : 

faster retival technique of records from table . an index create an entry for each value and it will be faster to retrieve . 

15) cursor 
A database cursor is a control which enales traversal over the rows or records in the tables .
this can be viewaed as a pointer to one row in a set of rows .
cursor is very much usefull for traversing such as retrival addition removal of database records .

16) relationship :

defined as connection between tables in database . 1 to 1 , 1 to many , many to 1 , many to many 

17) Query : 

a db query is a code written in order to get the information back from the database . query can be designed in such a way that it matched with our expectations of
the result set . simply , a question to the database .

18)   trigger : 

a db trigger is a code or program that automatically execute with response to some event on a table or view in a database . mainly trigger helps to maintain the 
integrity of the database .
ex. when a new student is added to the database , new recoords should be created in related tabled like exam score attendence tabels .

 
19) Delete and truncate command : 

delete command is used to remove rows from the table , and where clause can be 
used for conditional set of parameters . commit and rollback can be performed after delete statement .
truncate command remove all the rows from the table , operation can not be roll back .

20) local and global variables and their difference : 

local variables are variables which can be used or exist inside the function .they are not known to other function and cannot reffered to other functions . 
whenevr we call function we can create local variable .
whenevr we call function we can not create global  variable .

21) constraint : 
it can be specified the limit on the data type of table .
constraint can be speciFied while creating or altering table . 
not null 
check
default
unique
primary key
foreign key 


22) integrity : 
it means accuracy and consistancy of data over its entire life cycle . 

23) auto increment : 
AUTO increment is a keyword allows user to create a unique number to be generated when a new record is inserted into the table .
Auto incremet keyword is used in oracle while identity keyword is used in sql server .
mostly used when primary key is used .

24) difference between cluster and noncluster index: 

clustered inndex is used for esy retrival of data . 
while nonclustered index create a separate object to store date in the table . 
point back to the original table after row serching .

25) 

datawarehouse : 
large big gient set . 
datawarehouse is a central repository of data from multiple sources of information 
and those data are transformed and made available for the mininng and online processing . warehouse data have a subset of data called data marts .


26) 

self - join : 

self-join is set to be query used to compare to itself . this is used to compare values in a column . like find maximum in a column .
compare values in a coulmn with other values in same column in the same table .

27) 

cross join : define cartesian product 

28) user defined functions : 

function which are wirtten to use that llogic whenever required .it's not necessary to write the same logic several times . instead function can be called or executed whenevr needee .

29) 

collation : 

set of rules . determine how character data can be stored or compared . this can be used to compare A and other language character 
ASCII values can be used to compare those data .

30) Stored procedure : 

stored procedure can be used as a modular programming . means create once , store call for several times whenever required .
this supports faster executation instead of executing multiple queries . this reduce network traffic and provide better security .
disadvantage is that it can be executaed in database & utilise more memory . 

31) OLTP(online trasaction processing )

 oltp manage transaction based application which can be used for data entry and easy retrival processing of data .
this is faster more accurate .

32) CLAUSE : 

sql clause is defined to limit the result set by providing condition to the query . this usually filters some rows from the whole set pof records 

ex . query that has WHERE clause 
query that have HAVING clause 

33) recursive stored procedure : 
stored procedure which calls by itself until it recheas some boundary condition .
this recursive function or procedure helps programmer to use the same set of code any number of times .

34) union , minus , intract 

union : combine result of two tables and eliminate duplicate rows from the tables 
minus : query which are not in second table but in first table will be displayed 
intersect: common

34) ALIAS : 
ALIAS name can be given to a table or columns . this alias namecan be referred in where clause . 

35)
truncate and drop : 
drop command remove table from the database and cannot be rolled back .

36) aggregate and scalar function : 

Aggregate func are usde to evalute mathematical calculation and return single values .
this can be calculated from the columns in a table .
scalar function return a single value based on the input values .

ex . max() -> aggregate func
     UCASE() ->scalar func

37) fetch common records from two table 
select studentid from student <strong> INTERSECT </strong> Select StudentId from exam

38) fetch alternate records from a table 

records can be fetched for both odd anf even row numbers : 
to display even numbers  : 
select studentid from (select rowno , studentid from student) where mod(rowno,2)=0
to display odd numbers  : 
select studentid from (select rowno , studentid from student) where mod(rowno,2)=1



39) select unique records  : 
select distinct studentid , tudentname from student 
40)  fetch first five character of the string : 
select substring (studentname,1,5) as studentname from student 
select right (strudentname , 5 ) as studentname from student 

41) pattern matching 

LIKE operator usedfor pattern matchoing
% matches   zero or more characters 
_ underscore matches exactly one charcter 

select * from student where studentname like 'a%'

select * from student where studentname like 'ami_'

